*What brought you to sudo room and what brings you there now?*

## Initially

I was at Science Hack Day 2011 in San Francisco, working on a software project. My friend, Jacob Shiach, looked over to me and said "What if you could do this every day?" There were groups working on all sorts of projects: hardware, software, data and more. I was unemployed at the time so I said that sounded pretty good.

He was looking at local funding, grant applications, foundations. Jacob and I had talked about several projects in open science and citizen science. We were interested in alternatives to existing institutions that would provide infrastructure, be decentralized, and enable coordination to address humanity's greatest (or most ignored) problems&mdash;all in the open.

At this time, I was energized by the imperative and opportunity to use the internet to pursue a society that reflects my values, and the values of my peers. Otherwise and already, the network was used to maintain the status quo of incumbent powers. I have [a tattoo](http://boingboing.net/2013/02/20/tattoo-of-the-arpanet-as-it-st.html) to remind me about this. However, the internet is not the only venue worth attention. I accepted our embodiment as humans, we require physical space, and through use, we create places where our values are performed and given the potential to flourish.

I had researched hackerspaces and similar organizations for some time. My support of the [Occupy Movement](http://occupy.net/), involvement with a campaign called [Bank Migration](http://bankmigration.org/),  and need for space for a local meetup group called the *Digital Citizens Project* sparked up this old search. I had previously wanted to create a community-run computer lab in the bay area. As an environmentalist, I was especially interested in sustainable technologies, re-use of waste, and education. The community space could take old computers, help folks learn how to repair them, and install open source software for doing even more creative projects. Little did I know this and more would follow...

On Monday we registered [sudoroom.org](http://sudoroom.org/), made a logo using the Ubuntu font in black and red letters, and set up a basic WordPress website. Jacob contacted some local folks on the [DIYbio](http://diybio.org/) email list, including Marc Juul. Marc co-founded [Labitat](http://labitat.dk/) in Copenhagen, Denmark and had recently moved to the Bay Area. I met Marc at Actual Cafe near his workplace in Emeryville. We discussed what we were looking to form and he told me what they set up at Labitat. Between the inventory tracking application with QRcode labels and a fridge-integrated food-purchasing system, I felt our new space in the east bay, sudo room, could be real. There was no delusion that it would be easy or fast, but at least it felt palpable.

The rest is [History](#history), though it continues to unfold. I never thought I could, or would even have interest to create a space on my own, in the image of my vision alone. My involvement in sudo room from that point forward was shaped in a dynamic process of including and reacting to other folks' perspectives, values, and contributions. The process, ultimately, was to share a vision, and set goals toward achieving it under clear, articulate, common values. The results are scattered in notes across the [sudo room wiki](http://sudoroom.org/wiki/), formalized in our [Articles of Association](http://sudoroom.org/wiki/Articles_of_Association) and amalgamated as attempted disclosure with [this book](/).

## Today

I come back to sudo room today, I must admit, out of habit. By intention, I have made sudo room a part of my regular routines. It has become an integral and essential element of not only my day-to-day life, but my exceptional life&mdash;the times unpredicted, unplanned, and unscheduled. Perhaps the most romantic aspect of sudo room for me is the element of serendipity, the result of reaching a critical mass or threshold of time in the space and collaborating with others in the community. Now I cannot imagine a *good* life without a place, and community, like sudo room.
